# Algorithms and Complexity (AL)

Algorithms are fundamental to computer science and software engineering. The real-world performance of any software system depends on: (1) the algorithms chosen and (2) the suitability and efficiency of the various layers of implementation. Good algorithm design is therefore crucial for the performance of all software systems. Moreover, the study of algorithms provides insight into the intrinsic nature of the problem as well as possible solution techniques independent of programming language, programming paradigm, computer hardware, or any other implementation aspect.

An important part of computing is the ability to select algorithms appropriate to particular purposes and to apply them, recognising the possibility that no suitable algorithm may exist. This facility relies on understanding the range of algorithms that address an important set of well- defined problems, recognising their strengths and weaknesses, and their suitability in particular contexts. Efficiency is a pervasive theme throughout this area.

This knowledge area defines the central concepts and skills required to design, implement, and analyse algorithms for solving problems. Algorithms are essential in all advanced areas of computer science: artificial intelligence, databases, distributed computing, graphics, networking, operating systems, programming languages, security, and so on. Algorithms that have specific utility in each of these are listed in the relevant knowledge areas. Cryptography, for example, appears in the new Knowledge Area on Information Assurance and Security (IAS), while parallel and distributed algorithms appear the Knowledge Area in Parallel and Distributed Computing (PD).
